* a plasmid is negatively supercoiled, which means that there are fewer turns
  than in a neutral 'lax' plasmid. Exists theory that organisms that live in
  high heat have positively supercoiled DNA to avoid spontaneus melting.

* DNA/DNA RNA/DNA parameters that you have have been extracted for short
  duplexes so there is no consideration of the energy involved in unwinding a
  region on a plasmid, which may be different from melting a 12-bp duplex
  These parameters were not obtained under stress. Wang and Pettitt 2014 seem
  to to do this for DNA/DNA, which is what you need. THey make a model A and a
  model B, which is an extension of model A with an adjustment term which
  improves correlation. This seems to be what you need to go for!!

* Torsional stress == + or - supercoil stress

* There is other work too: Exact method ... Benham 1999.

* Wait a minute! Lilian's experiments were performed on short, ~100nt free DNA,
  so the above stuff is not valid. Can you still come up with a better
  description of DNA bubble energetics?

* Lilian has performed experiments using supercoiled DNA, which showed reduced
* half-life for promoter escape: more PY, in other words. This could mean that
  the extra torsion increases promoter escape, but does not increase abortive
  initiation by the same amount. This can be explained by a mechanism where
  once RNAP reaches 11-12nt in length it escapes more readily than before,
  whereas on the free DNA eascape is not triggered and transcription goes on for
  longer, which offers more opportunity for backtracking and subsequent abort
  ive initiation. 

* readaing up on the trigger loop (also called g loop)

* since Lilian's work is not done on normal underwound DNA, one option can be
  to create an ODE model for the system, where you simplify some of the
processes (I know you worked a lot with that before: hopefully you'll do better
now). In order to do that you will need to formulate at least 3 questions that
this ODE model can answer that was not answered in your first paper. To find
those questionsk, work first with Lilian to resubmit the paper, and during this
process take not of questions that an ODE model can answer!

What can be done to write a modeling paper on the case that DNA stress is the
cause of promoter escape and abortive initiation.

This paper cannot re-use any analysis from the first paper directly.

First you have to review what exactly is meant by DNA stress in

* abortive initiation
* promoter escape

Who said What When.

This builds your case. You construct a world in which this matters for these
two situations. You explain the biochemical background for these processes.

You can hopefully cite your other paper that shows that the 3' dinucleotide is
most strongly correlated with productive yield; however, that there are still
uncertainties, such as strong abortive initiation in the first 3-6 nucleotides
that is not covered by the 3' dinucleotide theory. Also, your paper does not
cover the mechanism of abortive initiation: this presumably happens after
backtracking some steps. However, you might not need to consider backtracking,
since the extruded RNA does not contribute to stability. Just evaluate the
ensemble of scrunched states.

You must first review the literature on DNA stress to see what can be used
there. Use anything that is sequence dependent. If you cannot use anything,
what why proceed? Whatever you find, start with the basic DNA-DNA stuff. This
is not directly featured in your previous paper. Take into account maximum size
of transcrtips.


------------ Ideas 22. september ----------

Your basic idea is to model the system with ODEs and test hypotheses:

Scrunching stress can come into play in two ways:
1) Increases the probability of backtracking (linearly, exponential..)
2) ... ?
You can implement this as sequence dependent, or as only a length-dependent
sequence

RNA-DNA stability can be increasingly stabilizing up until 10nt, and not
contribute more to stabilization after that. This can also affect probability
of backtracking. Can also make this sequence dependent or just length dependent.

The only driver for forward movement is RNA 3' end affinity for trigger loop.
