What's up with:

* Trigger loop == G loop
contributes to non-backtracked pauses (Toulukhonov 2007)
promotes nucleotide addition when folded (Zhang 2009)
folding of trigger loop into trigger helix enhances nucleotidyl transfer up to
10000 fold

* nucleotidyl = nucleotide residue = nucleotide part of a nucleic acid chain

* RNAP active site can catalyze two reactions:
    nucleotidyl transfer == RNA + 1 nucleotide
    RNA hydrolysis == transcript cleavage == uses PPi as a nuclephile to
    release NTP.
    (and pyrophosphorolysis...!)

    nucleotidyl transfer requires conformation changes in both trigger loop and
    bridge helix

*    NTP binds in the i+1 site of the active center while the TL is relaxed
(unfolded) and induces its transition into an alpha-helical hairpin (TH), which
packs against the BH in a three-helix bundle, resulting in the closing of the
active site. In this conformationm, the TL (TH) directly contacts the substrate
and facilitates nucleotidyl transfer (Miropolskayaú 2010). Malinen et. al says
that the the folding of the trigger loop / closing of the active site is
affected by affinity of TL for 3' end.

    From discussion in Malinen et. al:
    Crystallographic and biochemical studies suggest that
    folding of the TL occurs spontaneously, even in the
    absence of bound NTP substrate, and is accompanied by
    relocation of the b-pincer domain, which increases the mo-
    bility of downstream DNA (2)(:Vassylev)

* My understanding now: PPi release somehow leads to TL unfolding. Now forward
  translocation can happen (TL independent). If TL folds again before
  incorporation of NTP, then reverse translocation can happen. Then, if forward
  translocation happens again (despite the affinity of 3' end for TL), TL can
  unfold, and NTP can bind. Alternatively, TL unfolds despite 3' end in the
  subtrate site, allowing forward translocation yet again. There does not seem
  to be any real info in the literature on how the trigger loop folds, except
  what Malinen et. al have contributed, which is not much, except that it's
  coupled to PPi release.

* Malinen et al found that the forward translocation rate was largely
  unaffected by sequence, which must mean that their equilibrium studies that
  showed the G>A>C>U preference must mean that it is reverse translocation that
  is most sequence dependent. This matches what Hein et. al found! they
  found that the k1 rates for pyrophosphorolysis varied much more than the
  k_minus_rates. If pyrophosphorolysis rates reflect translocation rates, this
  means that forward translocation rate were much more similar than reverse
  translocation rates. 

* I guess that backtracking happens from the pre-translocated state after TL
  unfolding and concurrent PPi release, but before translocation. It's a step
  backwards when forwards was intended. It's possible that by having a strong
  affinity for the trigger loop, the 3' RNA end can induce trigger loop
  folding, which stabilizes the pre-translocated state. When next the TL
  spontaneously unfolds, the 3'RNA has yet another chance at becoming
  backtracked. So the competition is between 3'end-TL and forward
  translocation. This can justify your approach. The brownian motion model
  stats that forward translocation occurs by thermal movement, which may explain
  why it's not sequence dependent.

* G loop == trigger loop

* F bridge

* Bridge helix, metastable alpha helix that spans the leading edge of the
  active site cleft

* F loop, adjacent to to the N terminus of the bridge helix and directly
  contrats the folded trigger loop. Essential for proper folding of trigger
  loop during nucleotide addition and giverns temperature adaptivity.

* Streptolydgin: blocks trigger loop folding

* In Hsu 2003 it is shown that the abortive but NOT the productive rate
  increases with increasing [NTP]. How do you explain that given your model
  formulation?

    FL depends also on incorporation after promoter escape, but should be rate
limited by abortive initiation. We see more abortive initiation, but the same
productive rate. I have no answer. Misincorporation induces backtracking, is
there anything there?

  She also concludes that the rate-limiting step leading to the formation of an
  abortive product is normally not affected by NTP concentration.

* Interesting: U > C > A > G for long backtracked pauses when each nucleotide
  is given in large addition for RNAP II (Larson et. al 2012).

* Nudler 1997 says that RNA-DNA hybrid maintains the register and prevents
  backtracking

* Sydow and Kramer 2009: on misincorporation, the bad nucleotide is frayed;
* fraying prevents ntp addition, pauses RNAP, and facilitates backtracking
  because of reduced RNA-DNA hybrid length??

* Here is some thinking for you: the rate of pauses and backtracking can be
  found from single-molecule studies (several by Landick)

* It's popular now to use the non-equilibrum approach, so do that of course. 
  First try to find an overall balance between pre-translocated and
  post-tranlsocated rate constants, assuming two different rates for entering
  pauses: high and low

* Assuming backtracking originates from a paused state, give some kind of
  estimate of how much RNAP spends in the paused state during abortive cycling
  (some help from Margeat?) Margeat indicates little time is spent with +1, +2,
  +3, +4 RNA, so assume rapid translocation up to here (but of course, there is
   abortive initiation here too, a lot in a way)
* You have a big picture to fit: the general abortive pattern

* Then try to see if this 

* Can you estimate the rate of entering into a pause and comparing
* this to elongation studies?

* There are several possibilities for where the effect of scrunching comes in.
    - One is by affecting the translocation rates directly
        - which in turn will affect - not the rate, but - how often a paused
          state is entered
    - Another is by affecting the rate of entering pauses
    - A third is to affect the rate of escaping from pauses

* For the sigma-effect, model as a decrease in forward translocation rate

