(Can justify that scrunching can be considered a force that increases
backtracking: studies have been performed in this direction)
Sequence or length dependence of scrunched complex on backtracking.

1) Length dependent contribution of scrunching to backtracking rate: linear vs exponential

2) Sequence dependent contribution of scrunching (DNADNA) to backtracking rate

3) Sequence dependent or length dependent RNA-DNA stability on abortive
   initiation

4) (Assumes you only do Msat in paper1) Go beyond Msat to see if that
matters/improves results.

5) Using Malinen's rate constants? Can work under the assumption that
translocation and everything occurs as before, but the ONLY thing that changes
yes the ONLY (to keep it simple) is the probability to further backtrack from a
paused state. This will probably not work!! Then, we can show that by
increasing the probability of pausing itself, we get better results.

 -- or do we need to increase the probability of pausing.

RNA-DNA stability can be increasingly stabilizing up until 10nt, and not
contribute more to stabilization after that. This can also affect probability
of backtracking. Can also make this sequence dependent or just length dependent.

The only driver for forward movement is RNA 3' end affinity for trigger loop.


SCOPE OF PAPER:

So there are 4 "big" parts to this:

0) Discuss that best correlation is with A, second-best with G, and that G is
counter to the sparsely documented 'pausing happens more on G' (Zhang 2014,
structural basis, etc)

1) Base case: assume stabilizing effect of RNA-DNA by free energy; assume no
effect of DNA-DNA energy. Just a simplified model that evaluates the kinetics
of initiation vs elongation. The important point is to find out where the time
limiting step occurs. Assume a constant backtracking rate of /s something and
release at 1 nt (to keep it simple).

1) Evaluate with rate constants "as if during elongation", with pause frequency
    "as if during elongation" -- this does not work; propose 3 "fixes"
    - enhanced reverse translocation
    - reduced forward translocation
    - increased entry to paused state

Step 1) Establishes a more or less descriptive model of initial transcription
that can be used to test hypotheses.

2) RNA-DNA energy: you have the karissamova 2014 who say that it can contribute
to transcription initiation stuff, and you have the structural basis who say
that it's all RNA-protein. We cannot test RNA-protein, but we can test RNA-DNA
versus a length-dependent stability, where stability increases until full
hybrid length. What does it tell us? [Is backtracking slower after a full
RNA-DNA hybrid is formed? -- do we get a speedup with each fewer duplex basepair?]

3) DNA-DNA energy. We have determined that entry to paused state is necessarily
increased during initiation. By just increasing the frequency we did well. Can
we do better? What if we make it a function of scrunched DNA length? See
result.

4) So far, assumed that all promoters achieve escape at +13, when most abortive
synthesis is complete. What happens if we attempt to use the MSATs? Does that
improve on the situation?

Conclusions: the conclusions from 1-4, or a subset of these.

BASIC ASSUMPTIONS

* [NTP] is not significantly affecting the result.
